+++
title = "Another Look at Rain.txt"
date = "2025-05-13"
+++

Rain.txt was a project that I made a long time ago now. It was my first real working app with a decent frontend and backend. The original idea was to make a better text editor for writers since I myself am an aspiring fantasy author. The end product was a decent enough application that was missing a few features mainly due to a lack of my expertise a the time. I used an npm package to make the actual text-editor which really limited the capabilities of the app.

At the time I didn't care too much since I was able to make the overall app work and it essentially had a file-system and you could write and edit and do everything you needed to.

Now I'm looking back on the app and I've been wanting to make a proper text editor as a learning experience. I think that would be the type of application where there would just be a lot of great understanding I would gain from understanding state, understanding pagination, and I would be able to implement things that don't exist in something like google docs.

If this project turns out well I could seriously see myself revamping Rain.txt into an app that has a lot of great features that could actually put it above something like google docs, like word, etc. How cool would it be if you could have an application for writing books that worked a little more like vscode where I could search through everything in just the folder for my book's documents instead of my entire drive. I could quickly open different chapters and notes and easily have split screen. We could even implement an undo tree as opposed to the linear sort of undo that vscode and google docs has. 

I'm going to do some research into building text-editors and see where to go from there. Right now I'm thinking of using C++ as I've really been enjoying building a lexical analyzer with C++ recently in my courses. Anyhow, I have lot of other ideas for other projects so we'll see when I actually get into this but I think there's some decent potential if not for practicality then at the very least for the learning. 